[azure logs] enable event hub processor v2 (#12802)
elastic/integrations: packages/azure/_dev/build/docs/events.md

You may also want to plan your Azure capacity better. Send Azure Activity logs to Elastic to track and visualize when your virtual machines fail to start because they exceed the quota limit.

## What's new in the integration v2 preview?

The Azure Logs integration v2 preview introduces:

* A new architecture that allows you to collect all logs through a single event hub.
* Significant efficiency improvements.

> * A new processor (v2) that incorporates the latest Event Hubs SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new event hub processor (v2) that incorporates the latest Event Hubs SDK.
```
(prefixing with "event hub" helps differentiate from the numerous other processors that exist, including our own multitude)

Author: Good call. It helps indeed!

The integration will automatically detect the log category and forward the logs to the appropriate data stream. When the integration v2 preview cannot find a matching data stream for a log category, it forwards the logs to the platform logs data stream.

> IMPORTANT: To use the integrationv2 preview, you must turn off all the existing v1 integrations and turn on only the v2 preview integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: **To use the integration v2 preview, you must turn off all the existing v1 integrations and turn on only the v2 preview integration.**
```
or something similar.

We don't want people to be able to say that they found the notice but, "It was on display in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying 'Beware of the Leopard'".

### Efficiency

> Under the hood, the v2 preview processes logs using only one `azure-eventhub` input per event hub instead of multiple inputs like the v1 architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, the v2 preview processes logs using only one `azure-eventhub` input per event hub instead of multiple inputs like the v1 architecture.
```

Author: 'Internally' sounds so much better. Thanks!

The `azure-eventhub` input is the main engine of the integration. It is responsible for fetching the messages from the event hub, processing them, and sending them to the data stream in Elasticsearch.

> The integration v2 preview avoids contention and inefficiencies from using multiple inputs with the same event hub, which is typical of the v1 architecture. With the v2 preview, you can still assign the agent policy to multiple Elastic Agents to scale out the logs processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration v2 preview avoids contention and inefficiencies from using multiple inputs with the same event hub, problems that are typical of the v1 architecture. With the v2 preview, you can still assign the agent policy to multiple Elastic Agents to scale out the logs processing.
```

The integration will automatically detect the log category and forward the logs to the appropriate data stream. When the integration v2 preview cannot find a matching data stream for a log category, it forwards the logs to the platform logs data stream.

> IMPORTANT: **To use the integration v2 preview, you must turn off all the existing v1 integrations and turn on only the v2 preview integration.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: **<blink>To use the integration v2 preview, you must turn off all the existing v1 integrations and turn on only the v2 preview integration.</blink>**
```
:rofl:

Author: Maybe it's a little too whimsical, but I appreciate it! 😄

### Efficiency

The integration v2 preview avoids contention and inefficiencies from using multiple consumers per partition with the same event hub, problems that are typical of the v1 architecture. With the v2 preview, you can still assign the agent policy to multiple Elastic Agents to scale out the logs processing.

> ### Processor v2 ✨

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Event Hub Processor v2 ✨
```

This setting can also be used to define your own endpoints, like for hybrid cloud models.

> ### Input v2 settings (advanced)

Reviewer: There is "input v2" and "integration v2" used in this document. Are they referring to the same thing? If so, I'd suggest deciding on one and using it consistently. If not, add some text briefly but clearly explaining their relationship.

Author: I'm glad you asked because I need a perspective from someone unfamiliar with these things.

"input v2" and "integration v2" are two different things.

Let me share more; probably, you can help me with this naming problem.

- **Integration v2**: is a new integration w/ routing within the Azure Logs package; we designed it to replace all other integrations with only one input per event hub instead of multiple ones.
- **Input v2**: is the new version of the Filebeat azure-eventhub input that uses the new Event Hub SDK.

The azure-eventhub input supports the legacy (v1) and the modern (v2) SDK and can switch from using a config option. See https://github.com/elastic/beats/blob/cd883f511c3cc5664a15f0fd66fe6a83ae655c27/x-pack/filebeat/input/azureeventhub/input.go#L70-L77 for more.

Even if some users know the internals, we usually do not mention inputs in integration docs. However, I would love to convey that they can stay with the old v1 'engine' or pick the new v2.

Instead of 'input,' I considered using the name 'processor.' The legacy and modern SDKs have the concept of 'processor,' so it makes sense to use it.

Let me know which name you think is clearer.

Reviewer: Thanks, that makes sense.

Not a direct answer, but when I am talking to others who don't deal with the internals, I use the term "collector" to describe inputs because it explains what the function of the entity is. This term is currently unladen in the context of beats and so is reasonably safe (though this may change due to OTel, and adding the "data" prefix is probably a good idea). To maintain this agnosticism, you'd try to avoid putting it in a setting where it gains a life, so for the heading something like "New data collector settings (advanced)" or "Version 2 data collector sett…" or "Azure SDK v2 data collec…" (versus "Legacy data coll…").

Author: Uhm, "data collector" is a good name; I regret not considering it when we added the new Event Hub SDK in Beats.

We added the "processor" concept to the azure-eventhub input in Beats 8.15 to have both legacy v1 and modern v2 side by side. I feel this "processor" has become part of the API, and we may need to stick to it.

Having a versioned input component should stay an advanced thing. I anticipate the processor v2 graduating as the default processor in 6-9 months as we add more v2-only features like Entra ID authentication options (service principal, workload identity, etc).

Is "processor" a better component name than "input," and is it good enough for an advanced scope setting?

Reviewer: My concern about "processor" is that it's overloaded with [these](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filtering-and-enhancing-data.html). But, having said that, I have no answers, only questions.

Author: Proposal. I removed the 'input' concept from the docs and replaced it with 'processor'.

I removed 'input' because technically, we have one input, with a configurable internal component called 'processor.'

Both legacy and modern SDKs identify the 'processor' as the internal component responsible for processing messages fetched by event hub partition consumers.

The following settings are **input v2 only** and available in the advanced section of the integration.

`processor_version` :
_string_
(v2 only) The input version that the integration should use. Possible values are `v1` and `v2` (preview). The input v2 is in preview. Using the input v1 is recommended for typical use cases. Default is `v1`.

`processor_update_interval` :
_string_
(v2 only) How often the input should attempt to claim partitions. Default is `10s`.

`processor_start_position` :
_string_

> (v2 only) Controls from what position in the event hub the input should start processing messages for all partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(v2 only) Controls from which position in the event hub the input should start processing messages for all partitions.
```

Possible values are `earliest` and `latest`.

* `earliest` starts processing messages from the last checkpoint, or the beginning of the event hub if no checkpoint is available.
* `latest` starts processing messages from the the latest event in the event hub and continues to process new events as they arrive.

Default is `earliest`.

`migrate_checkpoint` :
_boolean_

> (v2 only) Flag to control if the input should perform the checkpoint information migration from v1 to v2 at startup. The checkpoint migration converts the checkpoint information from the v1 format to the v2 format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(v2 only) Flag to control whether the input should perform the checkpoint information migration from v1 to v2 at startup. The checkpoint migration converts the checkpoint information from the v1 format to the v2 format.
```

Default is `false`, which means the input will not perform the checkpoint migration.

`partition_receive_timeout` :
_string_

> (v2 only) Max time to wait before processing the messages received from the event hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(v2 only) Maximum time to wait before processing the messages received from the event hub.
```

The partition consumer waits up to a "receive count" or a "receive timeout", whichever comes first. Default is `5` seconds.

`partition_receive_count` :
_string_

> (v2 only) Max number of messages from the event hub to wait for before processing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(v2 only) Maximum number of messages from the event hub to wait for before processing them.
```

This setting can also be used to define your own endpoints, like for hybrid cloud models.

> ### Processor v2 only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Event Hub Processor v2 only
```

> The following settings are **processor v2 only** and available in the advanced section of the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following settings are **event hub processor v2 only** and available in the advanced section of the integration.
```
